---
layout: post
title:  "How to Boggle Your Friends' Minds: Learn How to Simulate Boggle in R"
date:   2022-09-21
author: Mary Curtis
description: Learn functions, lists, and random sampling while playing Boggle!
image: /assets/images/Boggle.jpg
---

Ready to have fun with functions, matrices, and random sampling? If so, get ready to simulate your own boggle board in R! (For those of you who are unfamiliar with boggle checkout this link: [Wordshake Boggle](https://wordshake.com/boggle))

If you want to take a stab at this on your own before following along, here some general guidelines:
1. Write a function to return a random boggle board in a 4x4 matrix.
2. Create 16 unique dice - each a list with 6 letters.
3. When the function is run, randomize the placement of each die in the matrix and the side that the die lands on.

For those of you following along, I will guide you step-by-step, explaining the concepts as I go 

*Note: I have insufficient space to cover each concept fully and will only go over what is needed in this example. However, I have included helpful links which explore each topic in more depth.*

## Write the function get_board()

The very first step is to define our function.

### A Brief Overview of Functions
A function is basically an object that stores code that can can be run simply by calling that object. Functions are mainly used to automatate common tasks to avoid copying and pasting code.

#### Structure
A function is composed of a:
* Name  
* Set of arguments (optional)  
* Chunk of code  
* Value to return

#### Syntax
```r
function_name <- function(argument_1, argument_2) {
    #insert code chunk here
    return(return_value)
}
```


>**Function**: An object containing a chunk of code that can be run simply by calling that object to avoid repetition.
>
> Structure: 
> * Name
> * Set of arguments (optional)
> * Chunk of code
> * value returned
>
> Syntax:  
> my_function <- function(\<arguments>) {  
>     \<body of code>  
>     return(\<value to return>)  
>}
>
> Example:  
> ```r 
> addition <- function(x, y){  
>     answer = x + y  
>     return(answer)  
> }
> ```  
>  

To explore functions in greater depth, checkout this page: https://www.tutorialspoint.com/r/r_functions.htm 

For our purposes, we will create a function called get_board() inside of which we will write the code that will generate our boggle board.

Following the format above, we will write:  
```r
get_board() <- function() {  
  
}
```

As you probably noticed, there are no arguments passed to the function. This is simply because, compared to the *addition()* function in the example above, we do not need any parameters to be able to generate the output - a boggle board.  